Okay! For students doing the pet clinic
project I've been seeing some reports in
the community about the SureFire plugin
blowing up. It's failing and is unable
to create forked process error exactly
this right here in starting a fork.
I saw something like this in a project
I'm working on in my day job, so exactly
this. And the solution was to upgrade to
Java 11. Now I haven't run the Circle CI
job so I'm going to come over here and I
suspect it's happening and I want to use
this as a learning opportunity and let's
go in and run this. I'm going to come up
here and say rerun workflow. It's
been two months. I've been focused on the
testing project so I have been doing
much on the Spring Pet Clinic project. So
it's been about two months since I've
touched it and what's happened since
then in the last two months is a release
of the JVM has been made and I believe
what's happened underneath the covers is
the base image that Circle CI uses
to run the builds in that base
container there's a JVM in there and we
did get the failure. So inside that JVM or
inside that container, there's a JVM and
what happens is our workflow is using
the latest image from Docker, the open
JDK image. So let's come in here and take
a look at the build results and I want
to make sure that that is in fact what
is happening.
And yeah we can see that the fork
process is failing. When you explain
this here. So let's jump over to IntelliJ now
and let's come in here and I'll show you
exactly what's happening.
As in here, we have Circle CI and is
running in the open JDK. So it's got this
image tag of 8-jdk. So what's
happening is this is a Circle CI image
that has all the build tools. It's got
obviously open JDK in it, Open JDK 8,
and then it's also got things like Maven
and Gradle and everything that we need
for Java built. So that is built into the
Circle CI build image. What has
happened underneath the cover since I
ran this built blast is the release of
Java 8 has been updated and Maven is now
unhappy about that. I'm not sure if
it's a JVM bug or not or it's a settings
change inside the JVM. So let's come with
back over here to Chrome and there's a
discussion here. A number of things that
they talked about using the system class
loader is one solution and a variety of
other solutions. Now I did resolve a very
similar issue by going to Java 11 and
that's what I'm going to do with the
Spring Pet Clinic project is upgrade it to
Java 11. I'm going to do that in a
different video so we can show the
upgrade process to bring it up to Java
11. I suspect that's going to resolve
this issue. But I want you to understand
what is happening here as far as the
failure is underneath the covers the JVM
version changed. So you need to realize
when we are doing the build on Circle CI
that is running inside of a Docker
container. Jump back over here to
IntelliJ. It's running specifically
inside of this Docker Container and
what happened is the Circle CI guys
upgraded the the JDK inside that to new
release of the Java 8 JDK that has been
upgraded and now we are failing. So our
build environment changed and that is
why it is failing. My solution right
now. I'm recording this in November 2018.
January 2019 a month away, JDK 8 is going
to D support. So it's no longer I'm going
to be officially supported. Java 11 is
out and that is new next long-term
release. So what I'm going to do is jump
up to the next long-term release and I
suspect that's going to fix the issue
but if the issue does still persist we
will go in and address that.